Finch: Pi.
Can any of you tell me what it means?
I'll settle for an intelligent question here.
- Yeah?
Student1- My friend has a question, Mr. Swift. (Finch's alias as a substitute high-school teacher)
Student2-"What is any of this good for, and, uh... when would we ever use it?"
Finch: Let me show you.
Pi.
The ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter. And this...
is just the beginning. It keeps on going...
forever...
without ever repeating.
Which means that contained within this string of decimals...
is every single... other number.
Your birth date...
combination to your locker...
your social security number.
It's all in there, somewhere.
And if you convert... these decimals into letters...
you would have every word that ever existed in every... possible combination.
The first syllable you spoke as a baby...
the name of your latest crush...
your entire life story from beginning to end.
Everything we ever say or do...
all of the world's infinite possibilities rest within this 1... simple circle.
Now what you do with that information...
what it's good for...
well, that would be up to you.

* Such numbers are called normal numbers!

* The episode's title is a reference to the formula to find the circumference of a circle.

* The number "дл" is considered an infinite string of digits, but in theory it could be finitive but unable to be reproduced on print of any kind, or stored without the sufficient capacity if completely calculated (thus infinite). As a means of a metaphor, Finch explains that the number represents absolutely everything that exists, from the smallest and most irrelevant things to the unknown that has to be discovered or never will be. It is infinite due to its infinite, perfect symmetry, and allows the beginning and ending of the circumference to meet on the same spot anywhere along this circumference. This circle contains that everything: the universe. Finch later explains to Caleb that everyone and everything is contained, maintained and connected within that circle, and even if one fragment of the number disappears, the circle would disintegrate, and everything that is connected to him, his mother, the world, and even to Finch himself would lose all meaning.